I’m very happy you decided to apply for the International Talent Programme! With this e-mail I’d like to invite you for the next round in our selection procedure for the ITP, the online assessment. This assessment contains of three different tests: the Situational Judgement test, the Swift Executive Aptitude test and the Work Strengths test. 

This is what you can expect from the different kind of tests:

Situational Judgement test: this is a test where we ask you to judge potential trainee situations, so how do you act and what decisions do you make in certain situations? The purpose of this test is to see if there is a fit as a potential trainee in the ING culture. This test is based on our ING Orange Code (see attachment). You cannot practice for this test.
Swift Executive Aptitude test*: this is a time based analytical test, so please practice for this! The purpose of this test is to challenge your analytical skills. See the attachment for examples of this test.
Work Strengths test: this is a personality assessment, the purpose of this test is to see if there is a fit with the competencies we are looking for within ING. For this test it is important to keep in mind that you are already working for ING. You cannot practice for this test.

Verbal test: you will get a short story and you need to answer questions about it.

Numerical test: you will get diagrams and graphs and they ask you some questions about it.

Abstract test: you will get some figures/pictures, these figures change and you need to fill in the question mark.

Important:

Do not make this test in Safari, we suggest Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox.
If at any moment you encounter technical errors in the test, make a screenshot or a photo, send this to me and terminate the test immediately.
You will make the tests in the order presented above. After completing every test you will receive automated e-mails with the results. Note that you’ll receive two separate e-mails, one with the results and one with your assessment report. Moreover, it can take half an hour before you receive your report(s). After every test there is a possibility, if you don’t pass the test, that the selection procedure will stop.

For information about the whole selection procedure, check our webpage: https://www.ing.jobs/Netherlands/Traineeships/Selection-procedure.htm.

Attached you can find a more detailed preparation guide to prepare for the different tests.

I will give you a call to further discuss the tests and set a date on which you can make them. Would you have time for a short conversation tomorrow at 12:00? Please let me know.

Kind regards,

Maksymilian

